Alert summaries and conditional actions (#3245)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/rules-ui-manage.asciidoc

* Bulk edit multiple rules: Select the rules you want to edit, then select an action from the *Bulk actions* menu:
** *Index patterns*: Add or delete the index patterns used by all selected rules.
** *Tags*: Add or delete tags on all selected rules.

> ** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify action frequency for each action. If you don't want to change the frequency of existing actions on certain rules, update those rules separately.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand the last sentence `If you don't want to change the frequency of existing actions on certain rules, update those rules separately.`. This operation doesn't change frequency of existing actions. This operation will only add new actions to selected rules.

Author: @e40pud it could be referring to the option to overwrite existing actions on a rule (see screenshot below). I can make the sentence more direct. 

<img width="600" alt="Screenshot 2023-05-17 at 10 36 59 AM" src="https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/79124755/75395b02-aee6-480a-b133-204e9aa2335f">

For example:

```suggestion
** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify action frequency for each action. To overwrite the frequency of existing actions select the option to **Overwrite all selected rules actions**.
```

+

> IMPORTANT: After upgrading to 8.8, frequency settings for rule actions created in 8.7 or earlier are moved from the rule level to the action level. The action schedules remain the same and will continue to run on their previously specified frequency (`On each rule execution` `Hourly`, `Daily`, or `Weekly`). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: After upgrading to 8.8, frequency settings for rule actions created in 8.7 or earlier are moved from the rule level to the action level. The action schedules remain the same and will continue to run on their previously specified frequency (`On each rule execution`, `Hourly`, `Daily`, or `Weekly`). 
```

* Bulk edit multiple rules: Select the rules you want to edit, then select an action from the *Bulk actions* menu:
** *Index patterns*: Add or delete the index patterns used by all selected rules.
** *Tags*: Add or delete tags on all selected rules.

> ** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,notification actions>> on all selected rules. The action frequency you select applies to all actions (both new and existing) on all selected rules. If you don't want to change the frequency of existing actions, update the rules separately.

Reviewer: This does not feel correct to me. In bulk editing you can add actions and select individual frequencies for each of them. Those actions will be added to all selected rules after that.

Author: ```suggestion
** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify action frequency for each action. If you don't want to change the frequency of existing actions on certain rules, update those rules separately.
```

+

> IMPORTANT: After upgrading to 8.8, frequency settings for rule actions created in 8.7 or earlier are moved from the rule level to the action level. The action schedules remain the same and will continue to run on their previously specified frequency (`On each rule execution` `Hourly`, `Daily`, or `Weekly`). Rules without actions will be snoozed indefinitely. 

Reviewer: I think we should remove last sentence about snoozing.

There are several cases there: 1. when user created a rule without actions it won't be snoozed, it will just not do notifications because of the lack of the actions; 2. when user created a rule with some actions and then updated the rule level frequency to "Perform no actions", in this case we will snooze the rule.

I think it might be confusing for the user to see those cases. they will notice it via updated UI where we will show that rule has been snoozed.

What do you think @peluja1012

Author: @e40pud would you mind taking a look at my testing notes [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16R2Q7_h4VGTlgduzXoMtkrEnScCr4f92avok6NJgSvQ/edit)? I'm a little confused because I found that rules with actions and the "Perform no actions" frequency selected _do not_ get snoozed when you import it into 8.8. 

If I found a bug and that rule _should_ be snoozed in 8.8, would the following work:
> Rules with actions that were turned off in 8.7 (the `Perform no actions` action frequency was selected) are snoozed indefinitely after the upgrade.

Reviewer 2: @e40pud @nastasha-solomon I've added a [migration](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/156593) to unmute rules upon `8.7` -> `8.8` migration. `muteAll` has become a part of snooze settings so rules won't be snoozed by default after the migration.

* Bulk edit multiple rules: Select the rules you want to edit, then select an action from the *Bulk actions* menu:
** *Index patterns*: Add or delete the index patterns used by all selected rules.
** *Tags*: Add or delete tags on all selected rules.

> ** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify action frequency for each action. To overwrite the frequency of existing actions, select **Overwrite all selected rules actions**.

Author: Re-applying Ben's suggestion [here](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3245#discussion_r1199372031).

```suggestion
** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify an action frequency for each of them. To overwrite the frequency of existing actions select the option to **Overwrite all selected rules actions**.
```

> ** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify action frequency for each action. To overwrite the frequency of existing actions select the option to **Overwrite all selected rules actions**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify action frequency for each action. To overwrite the frequency of existing actions, select **Overwrite all selected rules actions**.
```

> ** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify action frequency for each action. To overwrite the frequency of existing actions select the option to **Overwrite all selected rules actions**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
** *Add rule actions*: Add <<rule-notifications,rule actions>> on all selected rules. If you add multiple actions, you can specify an action frequency for each of them. To overwrite the frequency of existing actions select the option to **Overwrite all selected rules actions**.
```

+

> IMPORTANT: After upgrading to 8.8, frequency settings for rule actions created in 8.7 or earlier are moved from the rule level to the action level. The action schedules remain the same and will continue to run on their previously specified frequency (`On each rule execution`, `Hourly`, `Daily`, or `Weekly`). 

Reviewer 3: Future-proofing
```suggestion
IMPORTANT: After upgrading to 8.8 or later, frequency settings for rule actions created in 8.7 or earlier are moved from the rule level to the action level. The action schedules remain the same and will continue to run on their previously specified frequency (`On each rule execution`, `Hourly`, `Daily`, or `Weekly`). 
```

+
NOTE: The action frequency you select applies to all actions (both new and existing) on all selected rules. If you don't want to change the frequency of existing actions, update the rules separately.

+

> IMPORTANT: In 8.8, action frequencies can be set for individual actions, and you can specify if notifications are sent when an alert is generated or at a custom alert summary interval. When you upgrade to 8.8, action-level frequency settings are applied to rules that have actions and were created in 8.7 or earlier. The frequency setting will default to the action frequency that was chosen for the rule before the upgrade. 

Reviewer: I think we might need to rephrase this a little bit. Couple notes:
1. There will be three options in 8.8 in terms of notification frequency:
-  Notification of summary of alerts on rule run
-  Notification of summary of alerts on custom interval
-  Notification for each generated alert on rule run
2. Regarding the upgrade. After the upgrade, if user had `rule level notification frequency` (`"On each rule execution"`, `"Hourly"`, `"Daily"` or `"Weekly"`) set in 8.7, this `rule level notification frequency` will be converted into an action level frequency for each individual action in 8.8. The `"Perform no actions"` rule level frequency option will be indicated as an indefinitely snoozed rule.

<img width="382" alt="Screenshot 2023-05-11 at 14 06 47" src="https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/2700761/c4c69664-ea06-41a4-8ced-0af7926fd4c3">

Author: @e40pud how important is it that we distinguish the two frequencies users can set when they select the alert as summary option? Would it be sufficient to lump the two options together and say that they can choose an alert summary interval? For example:

In 8.8, action frequencies can be set for individual actions, and you can choose to send notifications when an alert is generated or at a specified alert summary interval.

Author: Regarding the second half of the note, would the following work:

Action frequencies for rules created in 8.7 or earlier are converted from the rule-level to the action-level after you upgrade to 8.8. Scheduled actions will continue to run on their previously specified frequency (`On each rule execution` `Hourly`, `Daily`, or `Weekly`). Rules without actions will be snoozed indefinitely.
